Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
What is IDE?
Ans:A Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application 
which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans:NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition,BlueJ,jEdit,jGRASP,JSource and few more.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans:We can use any text editor to create the high-level Java text file.
This file is saved as a .java file on the disk. We then compile this text file using
the Java compiler, which result in a .class file being created on the disk.
The .class file contains the bytecodes. The file is then loaded into memory by 
the class loader. The bytecode verifier confirms that the bytecodes are valid and not hostile.
Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translates them into machine code. 
what is class?
Ans:A class is an bluprint/template of an object.
What is object?
Ans:Object is an intance of a class.
What is the entry point of an application?
Ans:main method
Why main is static?
Ans:This is neccesary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans:1.Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and 
cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that 
implements a default behavior. 2.Variables declared in a Java interface is by 
default final. An abstract class may contain non-final variables.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: No, we have implements Interface and extends abstarct class to use it.
what is Access Specifier?
Ans:An access specifiers determine how other parts of the program
can access the members of the class such as public,private,protected and package.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans:OOP stands for Object Oriented programming.Following are the features of OOP;
Abstraction: Implementation hiding.
Inheritence:is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties and behavior of
parent class.
Encaptulation:Process of data hiding
Polymorphism:Ability of an object to take many forms like Method Overloading and Method overriding.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans:Application Programming Interface.
Does java support multiple inheritance?
Ans:No.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans:Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have two or more methods
having same name, if their argument lists are different.It happens in compile time.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans:An Exception can be anything which interrupts the normal flow of the program.
Different exception handing are: try catch block,Finally block,try-catch-finally block,finally block and return 
statement, throw exceptions etc.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans:Static variables are declared in a class but not in a method, also known as class 
variables. This type of variable is declared using the keyword static. 
Static variables are created when the program begins and destroyed when the program ends.
Static methods in java belong to the class (not an instance of it). They use no 
instance variables and will usually take input from the parameters, perform actions on it, then return some result.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans:Final is a Keyword. Final is used to apply restrictions on class,
method and variable. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be
overridden and final variable value can't be changed
What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans:Final is a Keyword. Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited,
final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
Finally is a block. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is a method. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?
Ans:A constructor initializes an object when it is created. It has the name as its 
class and is syntactically similar to a method.
However constructors have no explicit return type.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans:When a method is called, it is automatically passed an implicit argument that is a reference to the invoking object.
This reference is called this.
What is "super" keyword in java?
Ans:The super keyword in java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
Whenever you create the instance of subclass, an instance of parent class is created implicitly which is referred by super reference variable. 
1.super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
2.super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
3.super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.
What is JVM stand for ?
Ans:Java Virtual Machine
What version of java are you using?
Ans:JDK 8u144
What is JAR stand for ?
Ans:Java Archive
What is compile time and run time?
Ans:The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable
program. This compilation process is referred to as compile time.
A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. 
When an application is running, it is called runtime.
What is heap?
The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
Ans:Java objects reside in an area called the heap.
The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase
or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full,
garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer
used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans:String is immutable  ( once created can not be changed )object.
The object created as a String is stored in the  Constant String Pool  . 
Every immutable object in Java is thread safe ,that implies String is 
also thread safe . String can not be used by two threads simultaneously.
String  once assigned can not be changed.
StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object . The object created
through StringBuffer is stored in the heap . StringBuffer  has the same methods as the StringBuilder ,
but each method in StringBuffer is synchronized that is StringBuffer is thread safe .
StringBuilder  is same as the StringBuffer , that is it stores the object in heap and
it can also be modified . The main difference between the StringBuffer and 
StringBuilder is that StringBuilder is also not thread safe. 
StringBuilder is fast as it is not thread safe .
What is Singleton class?
Ans:In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class that can have 
only one object (an instance of the class) at a time. ... To design a singleton class: Make constructor as private.
Write a static method that has return type object of this singleton class.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans:Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which
can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams. 
The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans:Integer.
Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans:The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.
Since cached String literals are shared between multiple clients there is always a risk,
where one client's action would affect all another client.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans:Calling one constructor from other is called Constructor chaining in Java. Constructors 
can call each other automatically or explicitly using this() and super() keywords. this() denotes a no-argument constructor 
of the same class and super() denotes a no argument or default constructor of parent class.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Ans: just in time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans:Java objects reside in an area called the heap.
The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase
or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full,
garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer
used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Yes.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans:The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory 
is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used 
to store objects in Java.



